1. A network-layer packet is a datagram. A router forwards a packet based on the
packet's IP (layer 3) address. A link-layer switch forwards a packet based on the
packet's MAC (layer 2) address.

2. The main function of the data plane is packet forwarding, which is to forward
datagrams from their input links to their output links. For example, the data plane's
input ports perform physical layer function of terminating an incoming physical link
at a router, perform link-layer function to interoperate with the link layer at the other
side of the incoming link, and perform lookup function at the input ports.
The main function of the control plane is routing, which is to determine the paths a
packet takes from its source to its destination. A control plane is responsible for
executing routing protocols, responding to attached links that go up or down,
communicating with remote controllers, and performing management functions.

3. The key differences between routing and forwarding is that forwarding is a router's
local action of transferring packets from its input interfaces to its output interfaces,
and forwarding takes place at very short timescales (typically a few nanoseconds),
and thus is typically implemented in hardware. Routing refers to the network-wide
process that determines the end-to-end paths that packets take from sources to
destinations. Routing takes place on much longer timescales (typically seconds), and
is often implemented in software.

4. The role of the forwarding table within a router is to hold entries to determine the
outgoing link interface to which an arriving packet will be forwarded via switching
fabric.

5. The service model of the Internet's network layer is best-effort service. With this
service model, there is no guarantee that packets will be received in the order in
which they were sent, no guarantee of their eventual delivery, no guarantee on the
end-to-end delay, and no minimal bandwidth guarantee.

6. Input port, switching fabric, and output ports are implemented in hardware, because
their datagram-processing functionality is far too fast for software implementation. A
routing processor inside a traditional router uses software for executing routing
protocols, maintaining routing tables and attached link state information, and
computing the forwarding table of a router. In addition, a routing processor in a SDN
router also relies on software for communication with a remote controller in order to
receive forwarding table entries and install them in the router's input ports.
Data plane is usually implemented in hardware due to the requirement of fast
processing, e.g., at nanosecond time scale. Control plane is usually implemented in
software and operates at the millisecond or second timescale, for example, forexecuting routing protocols, responding to attached links that go up or down,
communicating with remote controllers, and performing management functions.

7. With the shadow copy, the forwarding lookup is made locally, at each input port,
without invoking the centralized routing processor. Such a decentralized approach
avoids creating a lookup processing bottleneck at a single point within the router.

8. Destination-based forwarding means that a datagram arriving at a router will be
forwarded to an output interface based on only the final destination of the datagram.
Generalized-forwarding means that besides its final destination, other factors
associated with a datagram is also considered when a router determines the output
interface for the datagram. Software defined networking adopts generalized
forwarding, for example, forwarding decision can be based on a datagram's
TCP/UDP source or destination port numbers, besides its destination IP address.

9. A router uses longest prefix matching to determine which link interface a packet will
be forwarded to if the packet's destination address matches two or more entries in the
forwarding table. That is, the packet will be forwarded to the link interface that has
the longest prefix match with the packet's destination.

10. Switching via memory; switching via a bus; switching via an interconnection network.
An interconnection network can forward packets in parallel as long as all the packets
are being forwarded to different output ports.

11. If the rate at which packets arrive to the fabric exceeds switching fabric rate, then
packets will need to queue at the input ports. If this rate mismatch persists, the queues
will get larger and larger and eventually overflow the input port buffers, causing
packet loss. Packet loss can be eliminated if the switching fabric speed is at least n
times as fast as the input line speed, where n is the number of input ports.

12. Assuming input and output line speeds are the same, packet loss can still occur if the
rate at which packets arrive to a single output port exceeds the line speed. If this rate
mismatch persists, the queues will get larger and larger and eventually overflow the
output port buffers, causing packet loss. Note that increasing switch fabric speed
cannot prevent this problem from occurring.

13. HOL blocking: Sometimes a packet that is first in line at an input port queue must
wait because there is no available buffer space at the output port to which it wants to
be forwarded. When this occurs, all the packets behind the first packet are blocked,
even if their output queues have room to accommodate them. HOL blocking occurs
at the input port.

14. (A typo in this question: the first question mark should be replaced by a period).
Only FIFO can ensure that all packets depart in the order in which they arrived.

15. For example, a packet carrying network management information should receive
priority over regular user traffic. Another example, a real-time voice-over-IP packet
might need to receive priority over non-real-time traffic such as e-email.

16. With RR, all service classes are treated equally, i.e., no service class has priority over
any other service class. With WFQ, service classes are treated differently, i.e., each
class may receive a differential amount of service in any interval of time. When a
WFQ's all classes have the same amount of service weight, the WFQ is identical to RR.

17. The 8-bit protocol field in the IP datagram contains information about which transport
layer protocol the destination host should pass the segment to.

18. Time-to-live.

19. No. IP header checksum only computes the checksum of an IP packet's IP header
fields, which share no common bytes with the IP datagram's transport-layer segment
part.

20. The reassembly of the fragments of an IP datagram is done in the datagram's
destination host.

21. Yes. They have one address for each interface.

22. 11011111 00000001 00000011 00011100.

23. Students will get different correct answers for this question.

24. 8 interfaces; 3 forwarding tables.

25. 50% overhead.

26. Typically the wireless router includes a DHCP server. DHCP is used to assign IP
addresses to the 5 PCs and to the router interface. Yes, the wireless router also uses
NAT as it obtains only one IP address from the ISP.

27. Route aggregation means that an ISP uses a single prefix to advertise multiple
networks. Route aggregation is useful because an ISP can use this technique to
advertise to the rest of the Internet a single prefix address for the multiple networks
that the ISP has.

28. A plug-and-play or zeroconf protocol means that the protocol is able to automatically
configure a host's network-related aspects in order to connect the host into a network.

29. A private network address of a device in a network refers to a network address that is
only meaningful to those devices within that network. A datagram with a private
network address should never be present in the larger public Internet, because the
private network address is potentially used by many network devices within their own
private networks.

30. IPv6 has a fixed length header, which does not include most of the options an IPv4
header can include. Even though the IPv6 header contains two 128 bit addresses
(source and destination IP address) the whole header has a fixed length of 40 bytes
only. Several of the fields are similar in spirit. Traffic class, payload length, next
header and hop limit in IPv6 are respectively similar to type of service, datagram
length, upper-layer protocol and time to live in IPv4.

31. Yes, because the entire IPv6 datagram (including header fields) is encapsulated in an
IPv4 datagram.

32. Forwarding has two main operations: match and action. With destination-based
forwarding, the match operation of a router looks up only the destination IP address
of the to-be-forwarded datagram, and the action operation of the router involves
sending the packet into the switching fabric to a specified output port. With
generalized forwarding, the match can be made over multiple header fields associated
with different protocols at different layers in the protocol stack, and the action can
include forwarding the packet to one or more output ports, load-balancing packets
across multiple outgoing interfaces, rewriting header values (as in NAT),
purposefully blocking/dropping a packet (as in a firewall), sending a packet to a
special server for further processing and action, and more.

33. Each entry in the forwarding table of a destination-based forwarding contains only an
IP header field value and the outgoing link interface to which a packet (that matches
the IP header field value) is to be forwarded. Each entry of the flow table in
OpenFlow includes a set of header field values to which an incoming packet will be
matched, a set of counters that are updated as packets are matched to flow table
entries, and a set of actions to be taken when a packet matches a flow table entry.

34. 'Match plus action' means that a router or a switch tries to find a match between
some of the header values of a packet with some entry in a flow table, and then based
on that match, the router decides to which interface(s) the packet will be forwarded
and even some more operations on the packet. In the case of destination-based
forwarding packet switch, a router only tries to find a match between a flow table
entry with the destination IP address of an arriving packet, and the action is to decide
to which interface(s) the packet will be forwarded. In the case of an SDN, there are
many fields can be matched, for example, IP source address, TCP source port, and
source MAC address; there are also many actions can be taken, for example,
forwarding, dropping, and modifying a field value.

35. Three example header fields in an IP datagram that can be matched in OpenFlow 1.0
generalized forwarding are IP source address, TCP source port, and source MAC
address. Three fields that cannot be matched are: TTL field, datagram length field,
header checksum (which depends on TTL field).

