1. The Web: HTTP; file transfer: FTP; remote login: Telnet; e-mail: SMTP; BitTorrent
file sharing: BitTorrent protocol

2. Network architecture refers to the organization of the communication process into
layers (e.g., the five-layer Internet architecture). Application architecture, on the other
hand, is designed by an application developer and dictates the broad structure of the
application (e.g., client-server or P2P).

3. The process which initiates the communication is the client; the process that waits to
be contacted is the server.

4. No. In a P2P file-sharing application, the peer that is receiving a file is typically the
client and the peer that is sending the file is typically the server.

5. The IP address of the destination host and the port number of the socket in the
destination process.

6. You would use UDP. With UDP, the transaction can be completed in one roundtrip
time (RTT) - the client sends the transaction request into a UDP socket, and the server
sends the reply back to the client's UDP socket. With TCP, a minimum of two RTTs
are needed - one to set-up the TCP connection, and another for the client to send the
request, and for the server to send back the reply.

7. One such example is remote word processing, for example, with Google docs.
However, because Google docs runs over the Internet (using TCP), timing guarantees
are not provided.

8. a) Reliable data transfer
TCP provides a reliable byte-stream between client and server but UDP does not.
b) A guarantee that a certain value for throughput will be maintained
Neither
c) A guarantee that data will be delivered within a specified amount of time
Neither
d) Confidentiality (via encryption)
Neither

9. SSL operates at the application layer. The SSL socket takes unencrypted data from
the application layer, encrypts it and then passes it to the TCP socket. If the
application developer wants TCP to be enhanced with SSL, she has to include the
SSL code in the application.

10. A protocol uses handshaking if the two communicating entities first exchange control
packets before sending data to each other. SMTP uses handshaking at the application
layer whereas HTTP does not.

11. The applications associated with those protocols require that all application data be
received in the correct order and without gaps. TCP provides this service whereas
UDP does not.

12. When the user first visits the site, the server creates a unique identification number,
creates an entry in its back-end database, and returns this identification number as a
cookie number. This cookie number is stored on the user’s host and is managed by
the browser. During each subsequent visit (and purchase), the browser sends the
cookie number back to the site. Thus the site knows when this user (more precisely,
this browser) is visiting the site.

13. Web caching can bring the desired content “closer” to the user, possibly to the same
LAN to which the user’s host is connected. Web caching can reduce the delay for all
objects, even objects that are not cached, since caching reduces the traffic on links.

15. A list of several popular messaging apps: WhatsApp, Facebook Messenger, WeChat,
and Snapchat. These apps use the different protocols than SMS.

16. The message is first sent from Alice’s host to her mail server over HTTP. Alice’s
mail server then sends the message to Bob’s mail server over SMTP. Bob then
transfers the message from his mail server to his host over POP3.


18. With download and delete, after a user retrieves its messages from a POP server, the
messages are deleted. This poses a problem for the nomadic user, who may want to
access the messages from many different machines (office PC, home PC, etc.). In the
download and keep configuration, messages are not deleted after the user retrieves the
messages. This can also be inconvenient, as each time the user retrieves the stored
messages from a new machine, all of non-deleted messages will be transferred to the
new machine (including very old messages).

19. Yes an organization’s mail server and Web server can have the same alias for a host
name. The MX record is used to map the mail server’s host name to its IP address.

20. You should be able to see the sender's IP address for a user with an .edu email
address. But you will not be able to see the sender's IP address if the user uses a gmail
account.

21. It is not necessary that Bob will also provide chunks to Alice. Alice has to be in the
top 4 neighbors of Bob for Bob to send out chunks to her; this might not occur even if
Alice provides chunks to Bob throughout a 30-second interval.

22. Recall that in BitTorrent, a peer picks a random peer and optimistically unchokes the
peer for a short period of time. Therefore, Alice will eventually be optimistically
unchoked by one of her neighbors, during which time she will receive chunks from
that neighbor.

23. The overlay network in a P2P file sharing system consists of the nodes participating
in the file sharing system and the logical links between the nodes. There is a logical
link (an “edge” in graph theory terms) from node A to node B if there is a semi-
permanent TCP connection between A and B. An overlay network does not include
routers.

24. One server placement philosophy is called Enter Deep, which enter deep into the
access networks of Internet Service Providers, by deploying server clusters in access
ISPs all over the world. The goal is to reduce delays and increase throughput
between end users and the CDN servers. Another philosophy is Bring Home, which
bring the ISPs home by building large CDN server clusters at a smaller number of
sites and typically placing these server clusters in IXPs (Internet Exchange Points).
This Bring Home design typically results in lower maintenance and management cost,
compared with the enter-deep design philosophy.

25. Other than network-related factors, there are some important factors to consider, such
as load-balancing (clients should not be directed to overload clusters), diurnal effects,
variations across DNS servers within a network, limited availability of rarely
accessed video, and the need to alleviate hot-spots that may arise due to popular video
content.
Reference paper:
Torres, Ruben, et al. "Dissecting video server selection strategies in the YouTube
CDN." The 31st IEEE International Conference on. Distributed Computing Systems
(ICDCS), 2011.
Another factor to consider is ISP delivery cost – the clusters may be chosen so that
specific ISPs are used to carry CDN-to-client traffic, taking into account the different
cost structures in the contractual relationships between ISPs and cluster operators.

26. With the UDP server, there is no welcoming socket, and all data from different clients
enters the server through this one socket. With the TCP server, there is a welcoming
socket, and each time a client initiates a connection to the server, a new socket is
created. Thus, to support n simultaneous connections, the server would need n+1
sockets.

27. For the TCP application, as soon as the client is executed, it attempts to initiate a TCP
connection with the server. If the TCP server is not running, then the client will fail to
make a connection. For the UDP application, the client does not initiate connections
(or attempt to communicate with the UDP server) immediately upon execution