1. Per-router control means that a routing algorithm runs in each and every router; both
forwarding and routing function are constrained within each router. Each router has a
routing component that communicates with the routing components in other routers to
compute the values for its forwarding table. In such cases, we say that the network
control and data planes are implemented monolithically because each router works as
an independent entity that implements its own control and data planes.

2. Logically centralized control means that a logically central routing controller
computes and distributes the forwarding tables to be used by each and every router,
and each router does not compute its forwarding table, unlike the per-router control.
In the case of logically centralized control, the data plane and control plane are
implemented in separate devices; the control plane is implemented in a central server
or multiple servers, and the data plane is implemented in each router.

3. A centralized routing algorithm computes the least-cost path between a source and
destination by using complete, global knowledge about the network. The algorithm
needs to have the complete knowledge of the connectivity between all nodes and all
links' costs. The actual calculation can be run at one site or could be replicated in the
routing component of each and every router. A distributed routing algorithm
calculates the lease-cost path in an iterative, distributed manner by the routers. With a
decentralized algorithm, no node has the complete information about the costs of all
network links. Each node begins with only the knowledge of the costs of its own
directly attached links, and then through an iterative process of calculation and
information exchange with its neighboring nodes, a node gradually calculates the
least-cost path to a destination or a set of destinations.
OSPF protocol is an example of centralized routing algorithm, and BGP is an
example of a distributed routing algorithm.

4. Link state algorithms: Computes the least-cost path between source and destination
using complete, global knowledge about the network. Distance-vector routing: The
calculation of the least-cost path is carried out in an iterative, distributed manner. A
node only knows the neighbor to which it should forward a packet in order to reach
given destination along the least-cost path, and the cost of that path from itself to the
destination.

5. The count-to-infinity problem refers to a problem of distance vector routing. The
problem means that it takes a long time for a distance vector routing algorithm to
converge when there is a link cost increase. For example, consider a network of three
nodes x, y, and z. Suppose initially the link costs are c(x,y)=4, c(x,z)=50, and
c(y,z)=1. The result of distance-vector routing algorithm says that z's path to x is
z-->y--> x and the cost is 5(=4+1). When the cost of link (x,y) increases from 4 to 60,
it will take 44 iterations of running the distance-vector routing algorithm for node z to
realize that its new least-cost path to x is via its direct link to x, and hence y will also
realize its least-cost path to x is via z.

6. No. Each AS has administrative autonomy for routing within an AS.

7. Policy: Among ASs, policy issues dominate. It may well be important that traffic
originating in a given AS not be able to pass through another specific AS. Similarly, a
given AS may want to control what transit traffic it carries between other ASs. Within
an AS, everything is nominally under the same administrative control and thus policy
issues a much less important role in choosing routes with in AS.
Scale: The ability of a routing algorithm and its data structures to scale to handle
routing to/among large numbers of networks is a critical issue in inter-AS routing.
Within an AS, scalability is less of a concern. For one thing, if a single administrative
domain becomes too large, it is always possible to divide it into two ASs and perform
inter-AS routing between the two new ASs.
Performance: Because inter-AS routing is so policy oriented, the quality (for example,
performance) of the routes used is often of secondary concern (that is, a longer or
more costly route that satisfies certain policy criteria may well be taken over a route
that is shorter but does not meet that criteria). Indeed, we saw that among ASs, there
is not even the notion of cost (other than AS hop count) associated with routes.
Within a single AS, however, such policy concerns are of less importance, allowing
routing to focus more on the level of performance realized on a route.

8. False.
With OSPF, a router broadcasts its link-state information to all other routers in the
autonomous system to which it belongs, not just to its neighboring routers. This is
because with OSPF, each router needs to construct a complete topological map of the
entire AS and then locally runs Dijkstra's shortest-path algorithm to determine its least-
cost paths to all other nodes in the same AS.

9. An area in an OSPF autonomous system is refers to a set of routers, in which each
router broadcasts its link state to all other routers in the same set. An OSPF AS can be
configured hierarchically into multiple areas, with each area running its own OSPF
link-state routing algorithm. Within each area, one or more area border routers are
responsible for routing packets outside the area. The concept of area is introduced for
scalability reason, i.e., we would like to build a hierarchical routing for a large scale
OSPF AS, and an area is an important building block in hierarchical routing.

10. A subnet is a portion of a larger network; a subnet does not contain a router; its
boundaries are defined by the router and host interfaces. A prefix is the network
portion of a CDIRized address; it is written in the form a.b.c.d/x ; A prefix covers one
or more subnets. When a router advertises a prefix across a BGP session, it includes
with the prefix a number of BGP attributes. In BGP jargon, a prefix along with its
attributes is a BGP route (or simply a route).

11. Routers use the AS-PATH attribute to detect and prevent looping advertisements;
they also use it in choosing among multiple paths to the same prefix. The NEXT-
HOP attribute indicates the IP address of the first router along an advertised path
(outside of the AS receiving the advertisement) to a given prefix. When configuring
its forwarding table, a router uses the NEXT-HOP attribute.

12. A tier-1 ISP B may not to carry transit traffic between two other tier-1 ISPs, say A
and C, with which B has peering agreements. To implement this policy, ISP B would
not advertise to A routes that pass through C; and would not advertise to C routes that
pass through A.

13. False.
A BGP router can choose not to add its own identity to the received path and then
send that new path on to all of its neighbors, as BGP is a policy-based routing
protocol. This can happen in the following scenario. The destination of the received
path is some other AS, instead of the BGP router's AS, and the BGP router does not
want to work as a transit router.

14. The communication layer is responsible for the communication between the SDN
controller and those controlled network devices, via a protocol such as OpenFlow.
Through this layer, an SDN controller controls the operation of a remote SDN-
enabled switch, host, or other devices, and a device communicates locally-observed
events (e.g., a message indicating a link failure) to the controller.
The network-wide state-management layer provides up-to-date information about
state a network's hosts, links, switches, and other SDN-controlled devices. A
controller also maintains a copy of the flow tables of the various controlled devices.
The network-control application layer represents the brain of SDN control plane. The
applications at this layer use the APIs provided by a SDN controller to specify and
control the data plane in the network devices. For example, a routing network-control
application might determine the end-end paths between sources and destinations.
Another network application might perform access control.

15. I would implement a new routing protocol at the SDN's network-control application
layer, as this is the layer where a routing protocol determines the end-to-end paths
between sources and destinations.

16. The following is a list of types of messages flow across a SDN controller's
southbound from the controller to the controlled devices. The recipient of these
messages is a controlled packet switch.
 - Configuration. This message allows the controller to query and set a switch's
configuration parameters.
 - Modify-state. This message is used by a controller to add/delete or modify entries
in the switch's flow table, and to set switch port properties. -
 -
Read-state. This message is used by a controller to collect statistics and counter
values from the switch's flow table and ports.
Send-packet. This message is used by the controller to send a specific packet out
of a specified port at the controlled switch.
There are also messages that network-control applications (as senders) send to the
controller across the northbound interfaces, for example, messages to read/write
network state and flow tables within the state-management layer of the controller.

17. Two types of messages from a controlled device to a controller:
 - Flow-removed message. Its purpose is to inform the controller that a flow table
entry has been removed, for example, by a timeout or as the result of a received
modify-state message.
 - Port-status message. Its purpose is to inform the controller of a change in port
status.
Two types of messages from a controller to a controlled device:
 - Modify-state. The purpose is to add/delete or modify entries in the switch's flow
table, and to set switch port properties.
 - Read-state. The purpose is to collect statistics and counter values rom the switch's
flow table and ports.

18. The service abstraction layer allows internal network service applications to
communicate with each other. It allows controller components and applications to
invoke each other's services and to subscribe to events they generate. This layer also
provides a uniform abstract interface to the specific underlying communications
protocols in the communication layer, including OpenFlow and SNMP.

19.
Echo reply (to ping), type 0, code 0
Destination network unreachable, type 3 code 0
Destination host unreachable, type 3, code 1.
Source quench (congestion control), type 4 code 0.

20.
ICMP warning message (type 11 code 0) and a destination port unreachable ICMP
message (type 3 code 3).

21.
A managing server is an application, typically with a human in the loop, running in a
centralized network management station in a network operation center. It controls the
collection, processing, analysis, and/or display of network management information.
Actions are initiated in a managing server to control network behavior and a network
administrator uses a managing server to interact with the network's devices.
A managed device is a piece of network equipment (including its software) that resides
on a managed network. A managed device might be a host, router, switch, middlebox,
modem, thermometer, or other network-connected device.A network management agent is a process running in a managed device that
communicates with a managing server, taking local actions at the managed device under
the command and control of the managing server.
Management Information Base (MIB) collects the information associated with those
managed objects in a managed network. A MIB object might be a counter, such as the
number of IP datagrams discarded at a router due to errors in an IP datagram header, or
the number of UDP segments received at a host, or the status information such as whether
a particular device is functioning correctly.

22.
GetRequest is a message sent from a managing server to an agent to request the value of
one or more MIB objects at the agent's managed device.
SetRequest is a message used by a managing server to set the value of one or more MIB
objects in a managed device.

23.
A SNMP trap message is generated as a response to an event happened on a managed
device for which the device's managing server requires notification. It is used for
notifying a managing server of an exceptional situation (e.g., a link interface going up or
down) that has resulted in changes to MIB object values.